Documentation for what's new in Steeltoe v4 (#337)
SteeltoeOSS/Documentation: api/v4/welcome/whats-new.md

Steeltoe 4 requires .NET 8 or higher.

### Quality of Life improvements

- Annotated for nullable reference types
- Compatible with the latest versions of ASP.NET and third-party libraries
- Compatible with recent versions of Tanzu Platform (Cloud Foundry and Kubernetes) and Spring Boot
- Changes to align with .NET conventions and patterns, extensive review of the public API surface
- Performance and scalability improvements
- Numerous bugfixes
- Cleanup of logging output
- Way better documentation
- Improved test coverage, including interaction between different Steeltoe components
- All samples updated to .NET 8, fully tested and working
- Automated code style validation (Resharper, StyleCop, Sonar, Microsoft CodeAnalysis)

### General

- NuGet Packages
  - The Core/Base suffix has been dropped from package names, which was used to distinguish between NET Standard and .NET Core
  - Packages no longer have the ".Extensions" part in their name
- Extension methods
  - Most extension methods on host builders have been refactored to be extension methods on `IServiceCollection`, `IConfiguration`, `IConfigurationBuilder`, `ILoggingBuilder` etc.

>     This enables easier reuse, because Steeltoe doesn't need to adapt each time a new host builder is introduced.

Author: I'm not entirely sure what you're suggesting, but I've reworded this.

  - Various interfaces that weren't general-purpose have been removed, types not designed for inheritance/reuse made internal
  - Change methods containing optional parameters with default values to overloaded methods
  - Made several methods async, taking a `CancellationToken`
  - Validate method inputs to prevent a `NullReferenceException` downstream
  - Apply C#/.NET naming conventions, for example: rename `HealthStatus.OUT_OF_SERVICE` to `HealthStatus.OutOfService`
- Configuration
  - Steeltoe packages provide auto-completion in `appsettings.json` (only in Visual Studio for SDK-style web projects), global Steeltoe JSON schema updated
  - Nearly all configuration settings are reloadable without app restart, settings usually exposed via ASP.NET Options pattern
- Up-to-date
  - Extensively tested with the latest versions of dependent packages, database drivers and third-party products
    (including Tanzu, Cloud Foundry, Config Server, Consul, Eureka, RabbitMQ, Redis, OpenTelemetry, Grafana, Prometheus, Zipkin, Spring Boot Admin)
  - Refreshed dev-local Docker images for Config Server, Eureka, UAA and Spring Boot Admin

>   - Steeltoe no longer depends on legacy technologies, such as binary serialization and Newtonsoft.Json

Author: I think we did. There are no open issues to replace legacy bits, and I can't think of anything we missed.

### Removed components

> - Everything that interacts with the Kubernetes API directly, because this is a questionable practice from a security perspective

Author: This rationale occurs in multiple places. Can you suggest what it should be, so I can adapt?

# What's new in Steeltoe 4

## Overview

### Introduction

> Steeltoe started as a C# port of Java Spring Boot parts, offering .NET interoperability with enterprises running
> [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot) applications on [Cloud Foundry](https://www.cloudfoundry.org/) and [Tanzu Platform](https://www.vmware.com/products/app-platform/tanzu).
> Over time, it has evolved and was marketed into a set of libraries that help .NET developers build cloud-native applications.
> The libraries became bloated with features that were not widely used, while their Spring-based architecture and conventions
> have always felt alien to .NET developers.
> Since the introduction of [.NET Aspire](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/aspire/get-started/aspire-overview) and the
> acquisition of VMware by Broadcom, Steeltoe is returning to its original purpose.
> 
> Steeltoe 4 is a major release that brings many improvements and changes to the library.
> The goal of this release is to make Steeltoe better integrated in the .NET ecosystem in a more developer-friendly way, compatible
> with the latest versions of .NET and third-party libraries/products, and to improve the overall quality of the library.
> This document provides an overview of the changes in Steeltoe 4 and the impact on existing applications.
> Steeltoe 4 requires .NET 8 or higher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Steeltoe project began all the way back in 2016 (before .NET Core 1.0.0 was released) at the request of enterprises experiencing great success with their [Spring Cloud](https://spring.io/cloud) powered applications on [Cloud Foundry](https://www.cloudfoundry.org/).
These organizations were looking for similar outcomes (such as reduced developer toil, easy-to-implement observability, scaling and resiliency) for their .NET applications.
Rather than starting from scratch, Steeltoe took the approach of building clients for Spring Cloud services and porting code from Spring as needed, adapting the codebase to fit with .NET while trying to stay close to the Spring origins.
In order to deliver higher-level Spring project features, Steeltoe libraries grew rapidly with building-block components matching the architecture and conventions in Spring.

All previous versions of Steeltoe had capability and feature expansion as the main goals, with moderate regard for how well Steeltoe "blends in" with the greater .NET ecosystem.
As a result, the project hasn't really felt as .NET-native as we'd like it to be.
Add to that everything that's changed in the .NET ecosystem since .NET Core 1.0 and you can see why it was time for a major overhaul.

Steeltoe 4 is a major release that brings many improvements and changes with the following goals:

Steeltoe is well integrated in the .NET ecosystem from the perspective of .NET developers
Extensibility points are clearly documented and easy to understand
Steeltoe is compatible with the latest versions of .NET and third-party libraries/products
Steeltoe is maintainable, well-documented, consistent and contains high quality code

The introduction of [.NET Aspire](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/aspire/get-started/aspire-overview) and the acquisition of VMware by Broadcom
underscored that this is the time to refocus on Steeltoe’s core goals and re-evaluate how the desired outcomes are achieved.

This document provides an overview of the changes in Steeltoe 4 and the impact on existing applications.
Steeltoe 4 requires .NET 8 or higher.
```

Author: I've moved the introduction to #339, so we can get this PR in.

| `Steeltoe.Bootstrap.Autoconfig.SteeltoeAssemblies` | Type      | Steeltoe.Bootstrap.Autoconfig | Renamed | `Steeltoe.Bootstrap.AutoConfiguration.SteeltoeAssemblyNames` | Updated members to new/changed assembly names             |
| `Steeltoe.Connector`                               | Namespace | Steeltoe.Bootstrap.Autoconfig | Removed | None                                                         | Type locators have been replaced with internal-only shims |

### Notable PRs
- https://github.com/SteeltoeOSS/Steeltoe/pull/1352
- https://github.com/SteeltoeOSS/Steeltoe/pull/1325
- https://github.com/SteeltoeOSS/Steeltoe/pull/1223

### Documentation

For more information, see the updated [Bootstrap documentation](../bootstrap/index.md).

## Common

### Behavior changes

- Removed various APIs that were used internally, but not designed for extensibility/reuse
- Dynamically loading custom types for connectors and service discovery is no longer possible
- Removed Spring Expression Language (SpEL) support

> - Removed `UseCloudHosting` (impossible to reliably detect bound ports in all cases, while Cloud Foundry usually[^1] sets the port automatically)

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be a link? It just renders as `[^1]`

Author: That's because we use a very old version of docfx. Recent versions render it as a link. I've used this in many places, for example: https://docs-steeltoe-pr-337.azurewebsites.net/api/v4/discovery/netflix-eureka.html#registration.

| Steeltoe.Extensions.Configuration.CloudFoundryBase          | Renamed | Steeltoe.Configuration.CloudFoundry               |                                                                              |
| Steeltoe.Extensions.Configuration.CloudFoundryCore          | Renamed | Steeltoe.Configuration.CloudFoundry               |                                                                              |
| Steeltoe.Extensions.Configuration.ConfigServerBase          | Renamed | Steeltoe.Configuration.ConfigServer               |                                                                              |
| Steeltoe.Extensions.Configuration.ConfigServerCore          | Renamed | Steeltoe.Configuration.ConfigServer               |                                                                              |
| Steeltoe.Configuration.Encryption                           | Added   |                                                   | Provides decryption of `IConfiguration` entries                              |

> | Steeltoe.Extensions.Configuration.KubernetesBase            | Removed | None                                              | Direct interaction with Kubernetes API is a questionable security practice   |
> | Steeltoe.Extensions.Configuration.KubernetesCore            | Removed | None                                              | Direct interaction with Kubernetes API is a questionable security practice   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Steeltoe.Extensions.Configuration.KubernetesBase            | Removed | None                                              |  |
| Steeltoe.Extensions.Configuration.KubernetesCore            | Removed | None                                              |  |
```

Author: Ah, missed that one. Fixed.

| Steeltoe.Common.Security | Steeltoe.Common.Certificates |
| Steeltoe.Common.Utils | - |
| Steeltoe.Connector.* | Steeltoe.Connectors |
| Steeltoe.Connector.EFCore | Steeltoe.Connectors.EntityFrameworkCore |
| Steeltoe.Connector.EF6Core | - |
| Steeltoe.Discovery.Abstractions | Steeltoe.Common |
| Steeltoe.Discovery.ClientBase | Steeltoe.Discovery.HttpClients |
| Steeltoe.Discovery.ClientCore | Steeltoe.Discovery.HttpClients |
| Steeltoe.Discovery.Kubernetes | - |
| Steeltoe.Extensions.Configuration.Abstractions | Steeltoe.Configuration.Abstractions |
| Steeltoe.Extensions.Configuration.CloudFoundryBase | Steeltoe.Configuration.CloudFoundry |
| Steeltoe.Extensions.Configuration.CloudFoundryCore | Steeltoe.Configuration.CloudFoundry |
| Steeltoe.Extensions.Configuration.ConfigServerBase | Steeltoe.Configuration.ConfigServer |

> | Steeltoe.Extensions.Configuration.ConfigServerCore | Steeltoe.Configuration.ConfigServer |

Author: I thought about that, but I believe it's best to let the browser wrap as it deems appropriate, depending on screen size, device type, screen readers and all that. Interfering with this manually likely worsens scenarios we didn't think about.

> | Steeltoe.Extensions.Configuration.ConfigServerCore | Steeltoe.Configuration.ConfigServer |

Author: Ah yes, I remember now. The original packages table used a comma-separated list of packages in a single cell.

When I started filling the other tables, I realized they would be easier to comprehend when a single left-side entry lists potentially multiple replacements. Grouping multiple "from"/"to" entries complicates edit/import/export of the table and possibly makes it harder to comprehend.

Afterward, I updated the packages table likewise. But not entirely, looks like a missed one:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/152a92e5-3bdd-4b79-8ef4-20ba7ced3877)

| Steeltoe.Common.Certificates | Added   |                              | Support for handling X509 certificates                                       |
| Steeltoe.Common.Expression   | Removed | None                         | Existed for SpEL support, which has been removed                             |
| Steeltoe.Common.Kubernetes   | Removed | None                         | Direct interaction with Kubernetes API is a questionable security practice   |
| Steeltoe.Common.Logging      | Added   |                              | Provides `BootstrapLoggerFactory`                                            |
| Steeltoe.Common.Retry        | Removed | None                         | Existed for Messaging support, which has been removed                        |
| Steeltoe.Common.Security     | Moved   | Steeltoe.Common.Certificates |                                                                              |
| Steeltoe.Common.Utils        | Removed | None                         | Contained internal helpers not designed for external usage                   |

### API changes

> | Source                                                                                                                                     | Kind             | Package                        | Change          | Replacement                                                                                | Notes                                                                                 |

Author: Yes, I tried to reduce whitespace on the left side but failed in doing so. Can you take a look?

| `Steeltoe.Connector.Redis.RedisCacheConfigurer`                                                    | Type             | Steeltoe.Connector.Connector [Base/Core] | Removed | None                                                                                             | Refactored to use ASP.NET Options pattern                                                                    |
| `Steeltoe.Connector.Redis.RedisCacheConnectorOptions`                                              | Type             | Steeltoe.Connector.Connector [Base/Core] | Removed | `RedisOptions`                                                                                   | Provides connection string                                                                                   |
| `Steeltoe.Connector.Redis.RedisCacheServiceCollectionExtensions.AddDistributedRedisCache`          | Extension method | Steeltoe.Connector.Connector [Base/Core] | Moved   | `IHostApplicationBuilder.AddRedis()`                                                             | Auto-adds `ConnectionMultiplexer` if Microsoft.Extensions.Caching.StackExchangeRedis package is referenced   |

> | `Steeltoe.Connector.Redis.RedisCacheServiceCollectionExtensions.AddRedisConnectionMultiplexer`     | Extension method | Steeltoe.Connector.Connector [Base/Core] | Moved   | `IHostApplicationBuilder.AddRedis()`                                                             | Auto-adds `ConnectionMultiplexer` if Microsoft.Extensions.Caching.StackExchangeRedis package is referenced   |

Author: Steeltoe 3x required an [extra call](https://docs.steeltoe.io/api/v3/connectors/redis.html#add-iconnectionmultiplexer) to add `IConnectionMultiplexer`. This now happens automatically when the appropriate package is referenced. This is a change in behavior I wanted to point out.

| `Steeltoe.Connectors.ConnectorCreateConnection`                                                    | Type             | Steeltoe.Connectors                      | Added   |                                                                                                  | Delegate to customize connecting                                                                             |
| `Steeltoe.Connectors.ConnectorCreateHealthContributor`                                             | Type             | Steeltoe.Connectors                      | Added   |                                                                                                  | Delegate to create health contributor                                                                        |
| `Steeltoe.Connectors.ConnectorFactory<TOptions, TConnection>`                                      | Type             | Steeltoe.Connectors                      | Added   |                                                                                                  | Injectable, access connection string or driver-specific connection                                           |

> | `Steeltoe.Connectors.CosmosDb.CosmosDbConfigurationBuilderExtensions.ConfigureCosmosDb`            | Extension method | Steeltoe.Connectors                      | Added   |                                                                                                  | To support legacy host builders                                                                              |

Author: Yes. Do you have a suggestion for referring to them in a different way? They're not officially deprecated and are still used internally (for example, in `WebApplicationFactory`), but modern samples use `WebApplicationBuilder` and `HostApplicationBuilder` instead of these directly.

| `Steeltoe.Security.Authentication.CloudFoundry.CloudFoundryTokenKeyResolver`                                                        | Type             | Steeltoe.Security.Authentication.CloudFoundry [Base/Core] | Removed | None                                                                                                                         | Refactored to internal type `TokenKeyResolver`                               |
| `Steeltoe.Security.Authentication.CloudFoundry.CloudFoundryTokenValidator`                                                          | Type             | Steeltoe.Security.Authentication.CloudFoundry [Base/Core] | Removed | None                                                                                                                         | Refactored, no longer needed                                                 |

> | `Steeltoe.Security.Authentication.CloudFoundry.ConfigurationBuilderExtensions.AddCloudFoundryContainerIdentity`                     | Extension method | Steeltoe.Security.Authentication.CloudFoundry [Base/Core] | Moved   | `builder.Configuration.AddAppInstanceIdentityCertificate()` in Steeltoe.Security.Authorization.Certificate package           | Now auto-generates local certificate if not running on Cloud Foundry         |

Reviewer: I thought this always generated a local certificate
